
Overview Of The Game
--------------------
Welcome to Lemonade Stand.
Lemonade Stand is a business simulation, where the player must try to make as
much money as possible by selling cups of lemonade. You have three levels of
difficulty to choose from, each of which have a different starting amount. To
win a game you must reach the target amount of $5000. If at any time during the
game you have less than $5 without enough assets to make more money you will go
bankrupt and lose the game.

When the game begins the store will initially be closed. Before you can open it
you must have at least one jug of lemonade in stock. To do this you must first
have stock items of which to make jugs of lemonade with. You will need to buy
lemons, bags of sugar and ice. Once you have purchased your stock items you can
fill up the jugs of lemonade. Then you will be able to begin your sales and try
to make enough profit to win.
--End Page--

Starting a Game
---------------
On the main menu there are two options that allow you to start a game. You can
start a new game or you can load a saved game to continue from where you left
off. The 'save game' option will not work if there is no data inside the file
and every time you save a game any existing data will be over-written.

There are two things that you will be prompted to do when you start a new
game. Enter your name, and choose a level of difficulty.

Each of the three levels of difficulty will give you a different amount of
money to begin with amount and a different default day length for when the
store is open. They are as shown below.

Difficulty Starting Amount Starting Time length
---------- --------------- --------------------
Easy	        $200             210 secs
Medium	        $100             120 secs
Hard	        $50               60 secs

Every time the store opens it will remain open for a limited amount of time 
that increases with each passing day.
--End Page--

Loading a Game
--------------
When you start up the load game screen you will see a list of games that have
been saved to file. Under each individual save slot that is not empty you will
find the player name, the date of the save, the current day of the game,
current money and target money for that particulat saved game.

Example:
No.	Player Name	Date Saved	Day	Current Funds	Target Amout
1.	Paul King	4/11/2010	15	$721.30		$5000

If there are no saved gameyou will immediately be forced to leave the screen,
however if there is atleast one saved game you will be given 3 options. To load
a saved game, delete a saved game and exit back to the main menu.

If you choose to load one of the existing games, you will be prompted to select
which one and once loaded you will be able to immediately continue from the
game day which you saved. If you choose to delete a saved game, you will be
prompted to select which one and once selected the game will permanently be
removed from the file.
--End Page--

Using The Game Menu (Part 1 of 2)
---------------------------------
Once the game has started you see the in-game main menu. Here you will
have 9 options. Below is a description of what each selection does.

(1) Begin Day - This will open the store and enable you to sell lemonade to
customers that pass by. In order to open the store you must have at least 1 jug
of lemonade in stock to sell. For more information on where this takes you see
'Selling Lemonade'.

(2) See Finances - This screen will allow you to view all the information 
regarding your current money, money spent, profit made, sales made, items in
stock etc. You can also view how many customers were happy, unhappy and how
much stock in total has been destroyed by accidents or contamination.

(3) Buy Stock - This will take you to the buy stock screen. See 'Buying 
ingredients'

(4) Set Recipe or Price - Here you can adjust the recipe used in your lemonade
and you can also adjust the price per each cup. You can adjust the recipe's
sweetness or sourness depending on the amount of lemon or sugar, or make it
--End Page--

Using The Game Menu (Cont.)
---------------------------------
warmer or colder depending on the amount of ice. You can also increase the
price to make more profit off each sale or lower it to try and make more sales.
However the recipe cannot be changed while you still have lemonade in stock.

(5) Make Lemonade - Once you have enough items in stock to make lemonade you
can go here to make lemonade. Six cups can be made from one jug and you will be
asked how many jugs you want to make. Once you leave this screen you can open
the store and start the day.

(6) Save The Game - This option will enable you to save your current game so
that you can continue it later. If there is already a game saved in the file
then you will overwrite it each time you save.
		
(0) Exit Game - Choosing this option will end the game, taking you back to the
main menu.
--End Page--

Buying ingredients
------------------
In order to make jugs of lemonade there are three ingredients you will need in
stock. Lemons, sugar and ice. The amount required of each of these ingredients
depends on your recipe and you will not be able to fill up jugs unless you have
enough stock. 1 bag of sugar is enough for 8 cups of sugar and 1 bag of ice
holds 10 ice cups.

To obtain more ingredients you will need to select the 'Buy Stock' option from
the game menu. Your current stock supply and the cost for each type of item
will appear. You will be given two options. The first is to select the exact
quantity of each item you wish to buy. The second is to buy stock by selecting
how many jugs you want to fill and the required stock will be calculated
automatically. The prices of each type of item vary each day so you may want to
buy more of them while they are cheap and avoid buying them on days when they
are expensive.

Once you have made your decision, the items chosen and the total price will
appear asking you to confirm the purchase.
--End Page--

Selling lemonade
----------------
Once the store is open a new customer will arrive once every set number of
seconds. The time delay between each customer depends on the weather
temperature. If the customer finds the price of your lemonade reasonable they
will then purchase a cup and try it. If the customer likes the taste they will
then buy 1 to 5 more cups. If the customer finds the price to be low then they
will double their offer and buy 2 to 10 cups.

If the customer does not like the recipe then they will walk away without
any more purchases and the recipe problem will be shown to you under the
customer information message.

Every second there is a random chance of the lemons or sugar being infested by
a rodent or a child knocking over one or more cups of lemonade. If this happens
you will lose stock.

Every 5 seconds there is a random chance of lemonade being lost by either an
accident, theft or produce given for free, or alternativley, a rodent getting
into one of your bags of sugar and soiling it. When this happens you will lose
some of the supply from your stock.

There are 3 different game speeds you can run the game at when the store is
open. Normal, Fast and Ultra. You may also just simply choose to skip the
--End Page--

Selling lemonade (cont.)
------------------------
process and go to the end of the day where the daily report is shown.

Each day will last a set number of game ticks which is equal to 1 second at
normal speed. When this time runs out the day is over and the store will close.
Any lemonade that is leftover and did not get sold will then be thrown out.

If you run out of cups of lemonade in the store, you will immediately have to
close again and you will not be able to sell to any more customers that arrive
on that day. You will then need to make more lemonade before you can open the
store again.

If the sale price or the recipe is a problem, you can change it by selecting
the "set recipe or price" screen option on the game menu.

As soon as the store closes and you leave the screen you will visit a daily
report screen showing a summary of what happened in that day. One day will then
pass on the game menu and new weather will be generated.
--End Page--

Weather Forecast
----------------
Everyday a random weather forecast will be generated. The temperature in
degrees celsius will vary from 10oC to 45oC. There are 4 temperature modes
which depend on the degrees.
Mild: Less than 20oC
Warm: 20oC - 29oc
Hot: 30oc -39oc
Very Hot: 40oc - 45oc

on hotter days more ice will be required in your lemonade recipe in order
for the temperature to be ideal and on colder days less ice is required. The
frequency of customers will also vary depending on the temperature. Below is
the frequency each customer will appear while running at normal speed with
justification for the temperature.
Cold: Every 5 seconds
Warm: Every 4 seconds
Hot: Every 3 seconds
Very Hot: Every 4 seconds
If it is raining an extra 1 second will be added on in the time period between
each customer.
--End Page--

Destruction of stock items
--------------------------
Everytime lemonade is made a random amount of stock will be lost while the
lemonade is being made. You will lose lemons if they go bad, lose sugar when
it is infested by a rodent and lose ice when it melts.

Whenever the store closes and the day ends, all ice that you have in stock
melts. If the timer runs out then all remaining cups of lemonade will go off 
and will have to be thrown out.

You will need to take both these aspects into account in order to make wise
decisions. You must be careful with how much stock you purchase and how much
lemonade you make if you hope to be prosperous.

Good luck with the lemonade sales. The future of the business is in your hands.
Now go out there and make yourself a fortune!
--End Page--